**Little exercise.**

Here is a small description of a car (I know nothing about cars, so if you do, don't laugh about some eventual ludicrous caracteristic).

I'd like you to create a little program that prints line by line the entries of this description. But all the values in bold should be declared as variables first. Choose which data type fits better for each one in order to spare a maximum of space in memory.

Warning ! There is a little catch on the types `long` and `float`.

---

price: **8.750**
seats: **5**
isUsed : **true**
isAutomatic: **false**
km: **41.000**
cubicCapacity: **3** (the biggest cubic capacity in history is 13)
energyCat: **B** (it's a range from A to G)
fuelConsomption: **7,65**
power: **492** (the most powerful car in the world has 2.000 hp. Think of that...)
registrationNumber: **7247906257944313453**

---

I'd like you to have at least one : `int`, `short`, `long` `float`, `byte`, `boolean` and `char`.

Pay particular attention to the type `long` and `float`. There is a catch ! Try to understand why.

<details>
<summary>Open after completion
</summary>

- **price** is 8.750. This is in the range of a short. But the price of a car could easily go to 1 million. So it's not a good idea to put this variable in a short. The best answer is probably `int`.

- **seats** is 5. Unless we think of a giant bus with more than 127 seats, `byte` fits well to this variable.

- **isUsed** is a `boolean`. No many choices here...

- **isAutomatic** the same. `boolean`

- **km**. `int`

- **cubicCapacity**. If the biggest cubic capacity in history is 13, we can go assured that any other value that we would want to assign to this variable would be less than 127: `byte`

- **energyCat** is a range between A and G. We only need one letter : `char`

- **fuelConsomption** even tough `double` is more used, I wanted you to try to declare a `float` so you could see that you must put an `F` at the end.

- **power** If the most powerful car in the world has 2000hp, we can go assured that any other value that we would want to assign to this variable would be less than 32 thousands, so: `short`

- **registration** is a very long number. It's a `long`. But there is a catch : you must put `L` at the end. That's how it works ;)

```java
class CarProgram {
    public static void main(String[] args) {

        int price = 8750;
        byte seats = 5;
        boolean isUsed = true;
        boolean isAutomatic = false;
        int km = 41000;
        byte cubicCapacity = 3;
        char energyCat = 'B';
        float fuelConsomption = 7.65F;
        short power = 492;
        long registration = 7247906257944313453L;

        System.out.println("price: " + price);
        System.out.println("seats: " + seats);
        System.out.println("isUsed: " + isUsed);
        System.out.println("isAutomatic: " + isAutomatic);
        System.out.println("km: " + km);
        System.out.println("cubicCapacity: " + cubicCapacity);
        System.out.println("energyCat: " + energyCat);
        System.out.println("fuelConsomption: " + fuelConsomption);
        System.out.println("power: " + power);
        System.out.println("registration: " + registration);
    }
}

```

 </details>
