# Reference Types

---

We saw `primitive types`. These types are the building blocks of values in Java. They store simple values such as numbers, booleans and a single charater.

`reference types` are used to store complex objects such as dates, strings of characters, and actually... anything you want ! You can create the data type you want. Such as a `MailMessage`, `Cars`, etc.

Let's declare a variable that is, not a number, not a boolean... but a Date :

```java
package tutorial;

import java.util.Date;

public class MyProgram {

	public static void main(String[] args) {
		Date now = new Date();
		System.out.println(now);
	}
}
```

Look at this code. We have here a class (a program) called `MyProgram`, that belongs to the package `tutorial` (that I created).

In the entrypoint of this program (the method `main`), we declare a variable `now`.

However, we know Java is a typed language. So `now` must be declared as a specific type.

A date is not a number, a boolean or a single character (it doesn't fit the primitive types). A date is a specific kind of value in the real world: a specific point in time...

Actually, `Date` is a class. Each class can be kind of a "custom type". Here, it belongs to the package `java.util` (that is part of the Java language already).

So... `now` is a value that is a reference to the class `Date`. So its **type** is `Date` (the type is the class itself).

When we declare the variable `now`, we are saying to the program that `now` is an object created from the class `Date`.

As any object, it has methods available to it (depending on its founding class).

Ouuuuf...
Is that too complicated ? Well... feel free to search from other ressource what `reference types` are in Java.

---

### Main take away

The main take away here is :

- In Java, we declare a variable saying what kind of type the value will be :

```java
boolean iAmAwesome = true;
```

- We have 8 primitive type : `byte`, `short`, `int`, `double`, `float`, `boolean`, `char`.

- The other possible types in Java are objects that are a reference to a specific class, which is considered the type itself. (thus **reference types**)

```java
String myName = "Henrique";
```

Heey !! See ? You were wondering how the hell we could create a string of characters ? This is it ! An object referencing the class `String` that belongs to the standard package `java.lang`.

And the **type** of the object `myName` is the class `String` !
