# Arrays

---

How could we program without arrays, my friends ?

Indeed, just as strings, arrays are an essential part of any language.

It allow us to : **Store multiple values in a single variable**

In Java, arrays are a reference type.

---

#### Java arrays VS JavaScript arrays ?

Java arrays differ from JavaScript arrays in a few key ways, so even though you're familiar with the concept, here's a breakdown for Java:

- Unlike JavaScript arrays, Java arrays have a **fixed size that must be specified during creation**. You can't dynamically add or remove elements later.
  <br/>
- Java arrays can only **hold elements of the same data type**. For dynamic collections similar to JavaScript arrays, Java has the `ArrayList` class in the `java.util` package.
  <br/>
- Different from JavaScript, accessing an element with an invalid index (less than 0 or greater than the size minus 1) will cause an `ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException` (**ERROR**).

---

#### How to declare arrays ?

We saw that an array in Java must **hold elements of the same data type**.

So... an array of strings will be declared as such :

```java
String[] colors = {"red", "green", "blue"}; // Array of strings
```

Notice the brackets `[]` telling Java that this is an array. Notice as well that the values are passed between curly braces `{}`.

To access it :

```java

System.out.println(colors[1]); // green
System.out.println(colors[-2]); // ERROR : ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException
System.out.println(colors[3]); // ERROR : ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException

```

Of course, you are not limited with strings. You can use any type :

````java
Int[] numbers = {5, 7, 9, 10, 16}; // Array of integers
```java
````

If we want to create a new array without any values for now, we can use the `new` operator.

We don't pass initial values. We just say how many elements the array will hold. All the elements will then hold the value of `0` (because it's a numerical array, otherwise it would be `false` for a boolean array, empty string `""` for a string array, etc.).

```java
int numbers[] = new int[5]; // creating an array with 5 empty elements.

System.out.println(numbers[1]); // 0
System.out.println(colors[5]); // ERROR : ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException
```

Now... wanna see something different from JavaScript or even some other languages ?

```java
String[] words = {"Hello", "World", "Goodbye"};

System.out.println(words);
```

The printed values will be something like this : `[I@7dc5e7b4`

What the hell ?? :o

Well... this is the **address** in memory of this array. We don't get the list of items this array contains.

In order to display the items, we need to use a static method from the class `Arrays` (that you can import from the `java.util` package.)

```java
import java.util.Arrays;

// ......

int[] numbers = {5, 9, 1, 5};

System.out.println(Arrays.toString(numbers)); // [5, 9, 1, 3]

```

We will be using many and many methods and properties from the Array class !

One of them, for example, is `length` or `sort()` :

```java
Arrays.length(numbers); // 4
Arrays.sort(numbers); // [1, 3, 5, 9]
```

The Arrays class in Java provides a rich set of static methods for manipulating arrays. Here's a list of often used methods. Go take look what they do.

- `copyOf(array, newLength)`
- `copyOfRange(array, fromIndex, toIndex)`
- `deepCopy(original)`
- `equals(array1, array2)`
- `deepEquals(array1, array2)`
- `sort(array)`
- `sort(array, fromIndex, toIndex)`
- `sort(array, comparator)`
- `binarySearch(array, value)`
- `binarySearch(array, fromIndex, toIndex, value)`
- `fill(array, value)`
- `toString(array)`
- `hashCode(array)`
- `asList(array)`
- `fill(array, fromIndex, toIndex, value)`
- `equals(array1, array2)`
  etc... etc...
