# Arithmetic expressions

---

Normal programming arithmetic with some catches...

```java
int sum = 5 + 7;
int subs = 17 - 2;
int mult = 2 * 4;
int div = 12 / 3;

System.out.println(sum); // 12
System.out.println(subs); // 15
System.out.println(mult); // 8
System.out.println(div); // 4
```

We also have shorthand increment :

```java
int x = 4;
x++;

System.out.println(x); // 5
```

Be careful ! When you use `x++`, you're automatically assigning a new value to `x`. It's not just a representation of x+1. It mutates the variable.

HOWEVER... Go look for the difference between `++x` and `x++`

These have different outcomes.

So, try to make sense of this result :

```java
int x = 1;
int y = x++;
System.out.println(x);
System.out.println(y);

// 2
// 1 (WHY IT'S NOT 2 ??)

int x = 1;
int y = ++x;
System.out.println(x);
System.out.println(y);

// 2
// 2
```

We also have these expressions (like in JavaScript) :

```java
int x = 1;
x = x + 2; // 3
x += 2; // 5
x -= 1; // 4
x *= 3; // 12
x /= 4; // 3
```

---

#### Order of operations

Get to know your math.

```java

int x = 10 + 3 * 2; // 16
// vs :
int x = (10 + 3) * 2 // 26

```

---

#### Difference in types results from arithmetic operations

What's the outcome of x ?

```java
int x = 7 / 3;
System.out.println(x);

// 2
```

This should be `2.333` I gues... Why is this `2`?

Try to do in order to see if it works :

```java
double x = 7 / 3;
System.out.println(x);
```

Will we finally have `2.333` ?

No... :(
Why ?

<details>
<summary>Open after reflexion...</summary>
When we do 7/3, we are implicitely telling java that 7 and 3 are integers.

The result should be 2.3333, however, 2.333 is not an integer. So it round up in order to have an integer.

But if we use double ? Shouldn't it work ? No. Because 7 and 3 are still interpreted as integers.

So it first does : 7 / 3 (integer divided by integer --> 2 ) then it assigns it to a double called x.

In order to make it a double, we must write :

x = 7.0 / 3.0;

So now, it's the double 7.0 divided by the double 3.0, which is 2.3333

But you must specify that x is a double.

If you say x is an integer, you're assigning a double to an integer variable, which gives us an error.

Ouff....

</details>

---

Let's keep understanding this in the next chapter, where we'll see what `casting` is...
