# Casting

---

Casting in Java refers to the process of converting a value from one data type to another. There are two main types of casting:

**1. Widening Conversion (Implicit Casting):**

- Widening conversion happens automatically (implicitly) when you assign a value of a smaller data type to a variable of a larger data type.
  <br/>
- Since the larger data type can hold a wider range of values, no data loss occurs.
  <br/>
- For example, assigning an `int` (32 bits) to a `double` (64 bits) widens the value to fit the larger data type.

```java
short x = 2;

int y = x + 5;

// Result of y : the int 7
```

`x` was converted implicitely to the integer `2`(occupying now more space in memory). It was not a problem, because a `short` **FITS** into an `integer`.

We can `widen` any smaller data type to a bigger one. (which is called `implicit casting`)

`byte --> short --> int --> long --> float --> double`

We don't have to convert manually the values because we don't lose any data. The conversion is **implicitely** done.

---

Think of this :

```java
double x = 1.1;
double y = x + 2;
```

Will this give us an error ? No !

`2` is an integer, indeed. But we **CAN** implicitely convert an integer to a double.

It's like we were saying : `1.1 + 2.0` (because we specified that this variable would hold doubles)

**However**... if we do :

```java
int x = 2;

short y = x + 5;

// ERROR
```

We are trying to use an `integer` (`x`) (which takes more space in memory) inside of a `short`. `short` can't handle the amount of data that the `integer` `x`, even tough it's just 2.

---

2. **Narrowing Conversion (Explicit Casting)** :

- Narrowing conversion requires manual intervention by the programmer using a `cast operator`.

<br/>

- This is because converting from a larger data type to a smaller one might lead to data loss if the value in the larger type doesn't fit within the range of the smaller type.

<br/>

- The cast operator tells the compiler to perform the conversion at your own risk.

---

How can we solve this ?

```java
double x = 2.423;

int y = x + 5;

// ERROR
```

`int y = x + 5` is like saying that an integer should be `2.423` (which takes more space in memory than an integer) added to the integer `5`.

We must tell Java that **we want indeed** to convert `2.423` to an integer before performing the addition, at the risk to lose data (which we will).

That's how we do it :

```java
double x = 2.423;
int y = (int) x + 5;
```

With the `(int)` before `x` we are telling Java to convert `2.423` to `2` before additioning it to `5`.

We lost the decimals forever !

The result will be `7`

---

Note : Casing can only happen between **compatible types** like numbers to numbers. For example, we **cannot** cast :

```java
String x = "1";
int y = x + 2;
```

Contrary to JavaScript, Java doesn't convert this automatically.

But !... We can use the `Integer` class to parse it :

```java
Integer.parseInt(x);
```

It will understand that the string `"1"` can be converted to a number.

We call this "using a `wrapper`".

An example of valid code :

```java
String x = "1";
int y = Integer.parseInt(x) + 2;
System.out.println(y); // 3
```

In the same logic, we can use the classes `Double` for example to parse a string to a float :

```java
String x = "1.1";
double y = 5.6 + Double.parsedouble(x); // 6.7
```

(Ok... if you test that it will actually be 6.699999... If you're curious, go ask ChatGPT why. But for now don't worry about that)

---

AI AI AI... this seems quite complicated isn't it ?

Let's do some exercises !
