# Intro : Debug and Packaging

---

In this section, we're gonna learn how to debug Java programs and also how to package it for deployment.

We are going to take a look on :

- Finding and fixing errors
- Types of errors
- Common errors that beginners encounter
- Debugging
- Packaging

---

## Errors

There are two types of error in Java :

- Compile-time errors
- Run-time errors

#### Compile-time errors

These errors happen when Java cannot be compiled due to an error in your code.

For example:

- You're trying to use a variable that hasn't been declared.
- You're assigning a value of the wrong type to a declared variable.
- You forgot to specify the type of a variable.
- You have a mispelling or no valid syntax. (you forgot to close a block, didn't put the `;` after a declaration, etc.)
- You are using a reserved keyword as a variable name.

...And any error linked to your code that prevent Java to be compiled into Bytecode.

Usually, the error message you'll receive is pretty self-explanatory. It will tell you what is going on.

`someVariable cannot be resolved to a variable`, for example, will mean that the variable `someVariable` is used on your program but has not been declared. The program doesn't know what `someVariable` is.

Otherwise, Google is your friend ! Forums like [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/java) or others have plenty of information on Java errors. As I said in the beggining, Java is **VERY MUCH** used worldwide and has plenty of years behind it. Almost any error you can imagine will have somme discussion about it.

#### Run-time errors

Run-time errors are more tricky.

Your code has no syntax or logical problem, and thus is rightly compiled, but when you try to run the program, there is something wrong.

Usually the message is more absctract and we can't necessarly know at first glance why this is. The best tool to find where the error is, is the `Debugger`. The debugger will run our code line by line, until it reaches the error.

Let's check some errors that could happen :

- `ArithmeticException` : This error occurs when you attempt an illegal arithmetic operation, such as dividing by zero.

<br/>

- `ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException` : This error happens when you try to access an element in an array that's outside its bounds. Arrays have a fixed size, and elements are indexed from 0 to the length minus 1. Trying to access an element beyond this range will cause this exception

<br/>

- `NullPointerException` : This error occurs when you try to use a reference variable that has not been initialized or that currently points to null. Dereferencing a null pointer means trying to access an object or method through a null variable.

etc. etc.

---

The key difference is that the compiler cannot predict these errors during the compilation phase because they depend on the specific values or conditions encountered at runtime. The compiler can only verify the code syntax and identify issues like missing semicolons or undeclared variables.
