# Intro to Java

---

### Helloooooow all !!!

Welcome to your first day in Java ! I am not gonna promise it's gonna be easy. But with time you'll get to love it !

#### What is Java ?

_Java in an object-oriented, platform independendant programming language_

What does that mean in very simple terms ?

**Object-oriented** : mimic real-life objects

- It uses objects to model the desired tasks
- Objects have properties (variables) and behaviors (methods : functions)

**Platform independant** : _"Write once, run everywhere."_

- The same code can run in any device. Don't need to write different code for different operating systems. The code runs in the same way on Mac, Windows, Linux, etc.

Also, Java is a **concurrent language** : Not sequential execution : you can run many statements at the same time (this is different from JavaScript for example.)

---

#### High level and compilation

Java is a **high-level** programming language that was first released in 1995.

A **high-level language** is a programming language that **simplifies computer programming and makes it more accessible to humans**. Unlike low-level languages, which directly interact with the hardware and require intricate knowledge of machine architecture, high-level languages abstract away those complexities.

It is designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible, allowing developers to **write code once and run it anywhere**.

Java applications are compiled into **bytecode**, which can then be executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).

**Bytecode**: imagine you want to bake the best cookies ever (= your project), so you make a recipe that is perfect (= your code in a certain software coding language). but now you realize that your recipe would only give the best outcome if you bake it in a stone oven (= your OS) ... all the other types of oven would not result in a perfect cookie, or not even have a result worth eating! That's a bummer !

But, with JAVA, your recipe (= your code compiled into bytecode) would change and adapt based on the oven you want to use (the OS, for example). So that no matter which oven is used, the same cookie would be made every time.

That means : on Windows, Mac, Linux... it doesn't matter. The compiled bytecode will adapt to it. Thus the **write code once and run it anywhere**.

My analogy wasn't so clear ? Sorry... I tried... :/

---

#### In which areas is Java used ?

The most common usage is : **Web Development**.
Companies like Google, Amazon, Netflix, Twitter, YouTube, Booking. com, eBay... use Java for their backend.

**Standalone applications**. The original Minecraft is written in Java for example. Many IDEs from JetBrains are written in Java as well.

**Mobile** : Android is written in Java and almost all the apps and games on Android as well.

**Enterprise applications** : Combination of all the previous ones, SAP, Apple, etc. use Java.
