# Hello World program

---

#### First, a little bit of bla bla bla...

Java is a high-level, object-oriented programming language that was first released in 1995.

A **high-level language** (HLL) is a programming language that **simplifies computer programming and makes it more accessible to humans**. Unlike low-level languages, which directly interact with the hardware and require intricate knowledge of machine architecture, high-level languages abstract away those complexities.

It is designed to have as few implementation dependencies as possible, allowing developers to write code once and run it anywhere (WORA).

Java applications are compiled into **bytecode**, which can then be executed by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).

**Bytecode**: imagine you want to bake the best cookies ever (= your project), so you make a recipe that is perfect (= your code in a certain software coding language). but now you realize that your recipe would only give the best outcome if you bake it in a stone oven (= your OS) ... all the other types of oven would not result in a perfect cookie, or not even have a result worth eating!

with JAVA, your recipe (= bytecode) would change based on the oven you want to use. So that no matter which oven is used, the same cookie would be made every time.

My analogy wasn't so clear ? Sorry... I tried... :/

---

#### Printing Hello World

Let's do one of the most complicated task in programming : print `Hello World` !

You might be familiar with the `console.log` in JavaScript, or the even easier `print` in Python...

Well, my friends... things are gonna get weird from now on... Here is how we print "Hello World" in Java :

```java
class FirstProgram {
    public static void main(String[] args){
        System.out.println("Hello World");
    }
}
```

You'll have to run the program in order to see "Hello World" in the console. Do this now ;)

---

That seems a little too complicated to only print "Hello World" right ?

Let's try to understand this code. But don't worry. It's just a bird-eyes view. We will get back to **Object Oriented Programming** (OOP) in Java later and we will understand this more toroughly.

- A class (here : `FirstProgram`) is basically a fancy name for a Java file. We are telling Java : Hey ! I have a new program here called `FirstProgram`.

- The `main` method is the, well... **the main method** that will run whenever we run our program. (`FirstProgram`)

- Whatever commands we put inside the method `main` is what we are going to do when we run the program.

Understanding the expressions of the `main` method :

**public**

- Indicates that the method can be accessed from outside the class where it’s defined.
- Making the main method public allows the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) to invoke it from outside the class, even if it’s not present in the current class.
- If the main method is not public, its access is restricted, and the JVM won’t recognize it as the entry point for program execution

**static**

- The main method is **static** so that the JVM can invoke it without creating an instance of the class.
- This avoids unnecessary memory usage for an object that would exist solely for calling the main method.
- If you try to run Java code where main is not static, you’ll encounter an error

**void**

- Specifies that the method doesn’t return any value.
- Since the main method doesn’t need to return anything, its return type is `void`.
- As soon as the main method terminates, the entire Java program also terminates.
- In other words, the JVM doesn’t expect any meaningful return value from the main method

So, when you see `public static void main(String[] args)`, remember that it’s the entry point for your Java program, accessible globally, doesn’t return anything, and can be invoked without creating an object!

---

#### Typed language

Java is a **typed** language, which means we must tell Java **what data type is each variable we use**.

Which leads us to the parameter `String[] args`

Because we are expecting an array of strings, we write before `String[]` and then the name of the array : `args`.

We are basically accepting arguments as an array called `args`. This array has a type of **array of strings**.

Finally, we put the command : `System.out.println` which is basically the `console.log` of JavaScript.

---

Oufff.... Don't worry... that was just a small introduction so you have a grasp of what a Java code looks like. We will see very soon :

- OOP in Java (classes, methods, public, static, public, void, etc.)
- Data types and how to specify them.
