# Installing Java

---

In order to run a program in Java, we need to install the JDK (Java Development Kit).

[Here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/) is the link to do it.

We will be working here with the version 17, although you can install any of the higher version. Java is constantly being updated, improving capabilities of the language.

I advise you to check the differences between the different version and to not download a version too old, otherwise you would miss some key features we will tackle here.

---

#### Some considerations on different Java version.

- **Focus on smaller, frequent updates**: Newer releases (Java 11 onwards) tend to introduce fewer features at a time, but more frequently (every 6 months) compared to the pre-Java 11 days. This allows for faster iteration and adoption of new ideas.

- **Performance improvements**: Garbage collection has seen advancements, with options like G1 for reduced pause times and ZGC (introduced in Java 11) for ultra-low latency scenarios. (we will understand this later, don't worry :P)

- **Security updates**: Since Java 8 is no longer getting free public updates, it's recommended to use a later LTS (Long-Term Support) version like Java 11 or newer for better security.

---

#### Where to write code with Java ?

As you know by now, writing code can be done in any text editor. But of course, we will do it in an IDE, that comes with syntax highlighting, autocompletition (intelliSense), code refactoring, importing librairies, building, compiling, and running code.

The most used IDEs for Java programming are [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) (from JetBrains and it's **not** free) and [Eclipse IDE](https://eclipseide.org/). However, you can use the IDE of your choice, for example : **VS Code**, which is free and open source and have a premade package to be installed specifically designed to program in Java.

**Installing the Java package in VS Code**

Download [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/java/java-tutorial) and install the `Coding Pack for Java`. Make sure you already have Java JDK installed and VSCode as well (duh!).

You now have plenty of ressources in your VSCode for Java programming !

The Coding Pack comes with a set of recommended extensions specifically tailored for Java development. These extensions enhance your productivity and provide language-specific features. Some notable ones include:

- **Language Support:** Extensions that provide syntax highlighting, code formatting, and other language-related features.
- **Debugger for Java:** Enables debugging Java applications within VS Code.
- **Maven for Java:** If you use Maven for project management, this extension integrates it seamlessly.
- **Spring Boot Tools:** For Spring Boot developers, this extension assists with Spring Boot projects.
  Tomcat for Java: If you work with Tomcat, this extension simplifies deployment and management.

---

Ok... I know there are a lot of words and expressions in this document that we never heard before. **Don't worry!** We will make sense of all of this ! For now, just install everything mentioned below.
