# Primitives

---

In the last chapter, we quickly had a small presentation of the primitive data types we have in Java.

Let's get a little deeper and understand how they work.

---

#### Whole numbers

**byte** : can store whole numbers beetwenn -128 and 127

**short** : can store whole numbers between -32.768 and 32.767

**int** : can store whole numbers between approximatively -2 billion and 2 billion.

**long**: can store MASSIVE numbers like quintillions, etc.

`int` is the most commonly used. The rest of them are barely used. But if you are restricted in memory don't hesitate to use `byte` our `short`.

And if you happen to need to store a massive number, use `long`.

But, again, you will almost always use `int`! So don't overload your brain with the others.

As you might have noticed, it's all a matter of memory usage : when you declare an `int`, you are "reserving" this amount of memory. (it's a little more complicated than that, but let's leave it like that)

---

#### Floating point number

**float** : can store 6 to 7 decimal digits.

**double** : can store 15 decimal digits.

Here, for some reason, `double` is the most commonly used.

---

#### Boolean

`boolean` is all alone. Just him and its value is either **true** or **false**

---

#### Character

`char` is all alone as well. It can store only one character.

Using `char` is more memory-efficient because it directly represents a single character without the overhead of a full-fledged object like `String`.

---

#### Little exercise.

Here is a small description of a car (I know nothing about cars, so if you do, don't laugh about some eventual ludicrous caracteristic).

I'd like you to create a little program that prints line by line the entries of this description. But all the values in bold should be declared as variables first.

price: **8.750**
doors: **5**
isUsed : **true**
isAutomatic: **false**
km: **41.000**
cubicCapacity: **3** (the biggest cubic capacity in history is 13)
energyCat: **B** (it's a range from A to G)
fuelConsomption: **7,65**
power: **492** (the most powerful car in the world has 2.000 hp. Think of that...)
registrationNumber: **7247906257944313453**

I'd like you to have at least one : `int`, `short`, `long` `double`, `byte`, `boolean` and `char`.

<details>
<summary>Open after completion
</summary>

- **price** is 8.750. This is in the range of a short. But the price of a car could easily go to 1 million. So it's not a good idea to put this variable in a short. The best answer is probably `int`.

- **doors** is 5. Unless we think of a giant bus with more than 127 doors, `byte` fits well to this variable.

- **isUsed** is a `boolean`. No many choices here...

- **isAutomatic** the same. `boolean`

- **km**. `int`

- **cubicCapacity**. If the biggest cubic capacity in history is 13, we can go assured that any other value that we would want to assign to this variable would be less than 127: `byte`

- **energyCat** is a range between A and G. We only need one letter : `char`

- **fuelConsomption** even tough `double` is more used, I wanted you to try to declare a `float` so you could see that you must put an `F` at the end.

- **power** If the most powerful car in the world has 2000hp, we can go assured that any other value that we would want to assign to this variable would be less than 32 thousands, so: `short`

- **registration** is a very long number. It's a `long`. But there is a catch : you must put `L` at the end. That's how it works ;)

```java
class CarProgram {
    public static void main(String[] args) {

        int price = 8750;
        byte doors = 5;
        boolean isUsed = true;
        boolean isAutomatic = false;
        int km = 41000;
        byte cubicCapacity = 3;
        char energyCat = 'B';
        float fuelConsomption = 7.65F;
        short power = 492;
        long registration = 7247906257944313453L;

        System.out.println("price: " + price);
        System.out.println("doors: " + doors);
        System.out.println("isUsed: " + isUsed);
        System.out.println("isAutomatic: " + isAutomatic);
        System.out.println("km: " + km);
        System.out.println("cubicCapacity: " + cubicCapacity);
        System.out.println("energyCat: " + energyCat);
        System.out.println("fuelConsomption: " + fuelConsomption);
        System.out.println("power: " + power);
        System.out.println("registration: " + registration);
    }
}

```

 </details>
