# Hello World program : a first touch on Java Code

---

Here, we will write straight-on a basic Java program. I'll explain it a little bit. But if you don't understand, worry not ! From the next chapter on, we will start from the really basics... This is just a first glance on how it works.

#### Printing Hello World

Let's do one of the most complicated task in programming : print `Hello World` !

You might be familiar with the `console.log` in JavaScript, or the even easier `print` in Python...

Well, my friends... things are gonna get weird from now on... Here is how we print "Hello World" in Java :

```java
class FirstProgram {
    public static void main(String[] args){
        System.out.println("Hello World");
    }
}
```

You'll have to run the program in order to see "Hello World" in the console. Do this now ;)

---

That seems a little too complicated to only print "Hello World" right ?

Let's try to understand this code. But don't worry. It's just a bird-eyes view. We will get back to **Object Oriented Programming** (OOP) in Java later and we will understand this more toroughly.

- A class (here : `FirstProgram`) is basically a fancy name for a Java program file. We are telling Java : Hey ! I have a new program here called `FirstProgram`.

- The `main` method is, well... **the main method** that will run whenever we run our program. (`FirstProgram`)

- Whatever commands we put inside the method `main` is what we are going to do when we run the program.

Thus: **the class is a "program" and the `main` method is the entry point of your program.**

#### Understanding the expressions of the `main` method :

**public**

- Indicates that the method can be accessed from outside the class where it’s defined.
- Making the `main` method public allows the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) to invoke it from outside the class.
- If the main method is not public, its access is restricted, and the JVM won’t recognize it as the entry point for program execution

**static**

- The main method is **static** so that the JVM can invoke it without creating an instance of the class (an object).
- This avoids unnecessary memory usage for an object that would exist solely for calling the main method.
- If you try to run Java code where `main` is not static, you’ll encounter an error

**void**

- Specifies that the method doesn’t return any value.
- Since the main method doesn’t need to return anything, its return type is `void`.
- As soon as the main method terminates, the entire Java program also terminates.
- In other words, the JVM doesn’t expect any meaningful return value from the main method

So, when you see `public static void main(String[] args)`, remember that it’s the entry point for your Java program, accessible globally, doesn’t return anything, and can be invoked without creating an object!

---

#### Typed language

Java is a **typed** language, which means we must tell Java **what data type is each variable we use**.

Which leads us to the parameter `String[] args`

Because we are eventually expecting an array of strings as arguments, we write before `String[]` and then the name of the array : `args`.

We are basically accepting arguments as an array called `args`. This array has a type of **array of strings**.

Finally, we put the command : `System.out.println` which is basically the `console.log` of JavaScript.

---

Oufff.... Don't worry... that was just a small introduction so you have a grasp of what a Java code looks like. We will see very soon :

- OOP in Java (classes, methods, public, static, public, void, etc.)
- Data types and how to specify them.

Take a look on this ultra short [introduction](https://youtu.be/drQK8ciCAjY?si=vCXFQHFfElDuaNic)
